twitter-data-analyzer/QUICKSTART.md, before:

# Quick Start Guide

Get up and running with Twitter Data Analyzer in 5 minutes!

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) (recommended) or pip

## Step 0: Install uv (if you don't have it)

```bash
# macOS and Linux
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Windows
powershell -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"

# Or with pip
pip install uv
```

## Step 1: Install Dependencies

```bash
cd twitter-data-analyzer

# With uv (recommended - much faster!)
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
uv pip install -e .

# Or with pip (alternative)
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Step 2: Get API Keys

### Twitter API (choose one method):

**Option A: Bearer Token (Easier)**
1. Go to https://developer.twitter.com/en/portal/dashboard
2. Create a project and app
3. Go to "Keys and tokens"
4. Generate/copy your "Bearer Token"

**Option B: OAuth 1.0a (More features)**
1. Go to https://developer.twitter.com/en/portal/dashboard
2. Create a project and app
3. Go to "Keys and tokens"
4. Copy: API Key, API Key Secret, Access Token, Access Token Secret

### Gemini API:
1. Go to https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey
2. Click "Create API Key"
3. Copy the key

## Step 3: Configure

```bash
# Create config file
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli init

# Edit .env file with your API keys
nano .env  # or use your preferred editor
```

Example `.env`:
```bash
# Use Bearer Token (easier)
TWITTER_BEARER_TOKEN=AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAFooBar...

# OR use OAuth 1.0a
TWITTER_API_KEY=your_api_key
TWITTER_API_SECRET=your_api_secret
TWITTER_ACCESS_TOKEN=your_access_token
TWITTER_ACCESS_SECRET=your_access_secret

# Gemini API
GEMINI_API_KEY=AIzaSyFooBar...
```

## Step 4: Fetch Your Data

```bash
# Fetch everything (tweets, likes, bookmarks)
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch

# Or fetch just tweets
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch --no-likes --no-bookmarks

# Fetch with a limit (useful for testing)
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch --limit 50
```

This will:
- Authenticate with Twitter
- Download your tweets, likes, and bookmarks
- Save everything to `twitter_data.duckdb`

## Step 5: Analyze!

```bash
# Get a summary
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze summary

# Analyze your tweets
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze tweets

# Analyze what you like
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze likes

# Ask custom questions
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli ask "What are my main interests?"
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli ask "What topics do I tweet about most?"

# Run SQL queries
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT text, like_count FROM tweets ORDER BY like_count DESC LIMIT 10"
```

## Common Commands

### Check Status
```bash
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli status
```

### Different Analysis Types
```bash
# Sentiment analysis
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze tweets --analysis-type sentiment

# Topic analysis
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze tweets --analysis-type topics

# Pattern analysis
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze tweets --analysis-type patterns
```

### SQL Queries Examples
```bash
# Most liked tweets
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT text, like_count FROM tweets ORDER BY like_count DESC LIMIT 10"

# Tweet count by month
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT DATE_TRUNC('month', created_at) as month, COUNT(*) as count FROM tweets GROUP BY month ORDER BY month"

# Recent tweets
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT text, created_at FROM tweets ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 20"
```

## Troubleshooting

### "Twitter API credentials not configured"
- Make sure you've created a `.env` file (run `python -m twitter_analyzer.cli init`)
- Check that your API keys are correct in `.env`
- Try running `python -m twitter_analyzer.cli status` to check config

### "Rate limit hit"
- Twitter has rate limits on API calls
- The tool saves what it fetched so far
- Wait 15 minutes and run fetch again

### Bookmarks not working
- Bookmarks require OAuth 2.0 with specific scopes
- Use a Bearer Token with bookmark.read scope
- Or skip bookmarks: `python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch --no-bookmarks`

### Import errors
- Make sure you installed dependencies: `uv pip install -e .` or `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- Make sure your virtual environment is activated
- Try reinstalling: `uv pip install --reinstall -e .` or `pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt`

## What's Next?

- Read the full [README.md](README.md) for more details
- Check [NOTES.md](NOTES.md) for implementation details
- Explore your data with custom SQL queries
- Ask Gemini interesting questions about your Twitter patterns!

## Example Workflow

```bash
# 1. Install and configure
uv venv && source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install -e .
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli init
# Edit .env with your API keys

# 2. Check everything is configured
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli status

# 3. Fetch your data
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch --limit 100

# 4. Get insights
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze summary
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli ask "What are my main interests based on likes?"

# 5. Explore with SQL
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM tweets"
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT text FROM tweets LIMIT 5"
```

Enjoy exploring your Twitter data! 🐦📊

Commit message:

Add interactive TUI browser for exploring Twitter data
Major new feature: Beautiful terminal UI for browsing Twitter data!

**New Files:**
- src/twitter_analyzer/tui.py: Full Textual-based TUI application
- TUI_GUIDE.md: Comprehensive guide to using the browser

**Features:**
- Interactive data browser with keyboard navigation
- Three tabs: Tweets, Likes, Bookmarks
- Real-time search/filter functionality
- Tweet detail panel with full information
- Live statistics display
- Rich keyboard shortcuts (arrows, tab, /, t, l, b, q)
- Beautiful table displays with zebra stripes
- Mouse support included

**UI Layout:**
- Left panel (70%): Search box + tabbed data tables
- Right panel (30%): Stats + selected tweet details
- Header/footer with key bindings

**Keyboard Navigation:**
- Arrow keys: Navigate rows
- Tab: Switch tabs/widgets
- t/l/b: Jump to Tweets/Likes/Bookmarks
- /: Focus search
- Esc: Clear selection
- q: Quit

**Dependencies:**
- Added Textual >= 0.47.0 to pyproject.toml and requirements.txt

**Updated:**
- cli.py: Added 'browse' command
- README.md: Added Interactive Browser section at top
- QUICKSTART.md: Featured browse command in Step 5
- Main README.md: Updated features to mention TUI

**Why Textual?**
- Built by Rich team (we already use Rich)
- Modern, fast, beautiful TUIs
- Reactive programming model
- Built-in widgets (DataTable, Tabs, etc.)
- Excellent documentation

**User Experience:**
Users can now explore their data interactively instead of writing SQL!
Much more fun and accessible for casual browsing.

Try it: python -m twitter_analyzer.cli browse

twitter-data-analyzer/QUICKSTART.md, after:

# Quick Start Guide

Get up and running with Twitter Data Analyzer in 5 minutes!

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) (recommended) or pip

## Step 0: Install uv (if you don't have it)

```bash
# macOS and Linux
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Windows
powershell -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"

# Or with pip
pip install uv
```

## Step 1: Install Dependencies

```bash
cd twitter-data-analyzer

# With uv (recommended - much faster!)
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
uv pip install -e .

# Or with pip (alternative)
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Step 2: Get API Keys

### Twitter API (choose one method):

**Option A: Bearer Token (Easier)**
1. Go to https://developer.twitter.com/en/portal/dashboard
2. Create a project and app
3. Go to "Keys and tokens"
4. Generate/copy your "Bearer Token"

**Option B: OAuth 1.0a (More features)**
1. Go to https://developer.twitter.com/en/portal/dashboard
2. Create a project and app
3. Go to "Keys and tokens"
4. Copy: API Key, API Key Secret, Access Token, Access Token Secret

### Gemini API:
1. Go to https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey
2. Click "Create API Key"
3. Copy the key

## Step 3: Configure

```bash
# Create config file
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli init

# Edit .env file with your API keys
nano .env  # or use your preferred editor
```

Example `.env`:
```bash
# Use Bearer Token (easier)
TWITTER_BEARER_TOKEN=AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAFooBar...

# OR use OAuth 1.0a
TWITTER_API_KEY=your_api_key
TWITTER_API_SECRET=your_api_secret
TWITTER_ACCESS_TOKEN=your_access_token
TWITTER_ACCESS_SECRET=your_access_secret

# Gemini API
GEMINI_API_KEY=AIzaSyFooBar...
```

## Step 4: Fetch Your Data

```bash
# Fetch everything (tweets, likes, bookmarks)
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch

# Or fetch just tweets
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch --no-likes --no-bookmarks

# Fetch with a limit (useful for testing)
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch --limit 50
```

This will:
- Authenticate with Twitter
- Download your tweets, likes, and bookmarks
- Save everything to `twitter_data.duckdb`

## Step 5: Explore Your Data!

### Interactive Browser (Recommended - It's Fun! 🎉)

```bash
# Launch the interactive TUI browser
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli browse
```

Use arrow keys to navigate, `/` to search, `t`/`l`/`b` to switch tabs, `q` to quit!

See [TUI_GUIDE.md](TUI_GUIDE.md) for full keyboard shortcuts and features.

### Or Use CLI Commands

```bash
# Get a summary
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze summary

# Analyze your tweets
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze tweets

# Analyze what you like
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze likes

# Ask custom questions
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli ask "What are my main interests?"
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli ask "What topics do I tweet about most?"

# Run SQL queries
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT text, like_count FROM tweets ORDER BY like_count DESC LIMIT 10"
```

## Common Commands

### Check Status
```bash
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli status
```

### Different Analysis Types
```bash
# Sentiment analysis
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze tweets --analysis-type sentiment

# Topic analysis
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze tweets --analysis-type topics

# Pattern analysis
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze tweets --analysis-type patterns
```

### SQL Queries Examples
```bash
# Most liked tweets
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT text, like_count FROM tweets ORDER BY like_count DESC LIMIT 10"

# Tweet count by month
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT DATE_TRUNC('month', created_at) as month, COUNT(*) as count FROM tweets GROUP BY month ORDER BY month"

# Recent tweets
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT text, created_at FROM tweets ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 20"
```

## Troubleshooting

### "Twitter API credentials not configured"
- Make sure you've created a `.env` file (run `python -m twitter_analyzer.cli init`)
- Check that your API keys are correct in `.env`
- Try running `python -m twitter_analyzer.cli status` to check config

### "Rate limit hit"
- Twitter has rate limits on API calls
- The tool saves what it fetched so far
- Wait 15 minutes and run fetch again

### Bookmarks not working
- Bookmarks require OAuth 2.0 with specific scopes
- Use a Bearer Token with bookmark.read scope
- Or skip bookmarks: `python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch --no-bookmarks`

### Import errors
- Make sure you installed dependencies: `uv pip install -e .` or `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- Make sure your virtual environment is activated
- Try reinstalling: `uv pip install --reinstall -e .` or `pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt`

## What's Next?

- Try the **interactive browser**: [TUI_GUIDE.md](TUI_GUIDE.md)
- Read the full [README.md](README.md) for more details
- Check [NOTES.md](NOTES.md) for implementation details
- Explore your data with custom SQL queries
- Ask Gemini interesting questions about your Twitter patterns!

## Example Workflow

```bash
# 1. Install and configure
uv venv && source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install -e .
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli init
# Edit .env with your API keys

# 2. Check everything is configured
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli status

# 3. Fetch your data
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli fetch --limit 100

# 4. Browse interactively (fun!)
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli browse

# 5. Get AI insights
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli analyze summary
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli ask "What are my main interests based on likes?"

# 6. Explore with SQL
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM tweets"
python -m twitter_analyzer.cli query "SELECT text FROM tweets LIMIT 5"
```

Enjoy exploring your Twitter data! 🐦📊
